Feat(Gateway): Service timeouts (#2998)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/_gateway_entities/service.md

<!--vale on -->

## Gateway Service timeouts

Timeouts are configured at the Service level and influence retry behavior when failures occur.

### Connect timeout

> The [`connect_timeout`](#schema-service-connect-timeout) parameter defines the time allowed to establish a TCP connection to the upstream server. If the connection can't be opened, it fails at the socket-setup layer. {{site.base_gateway}} returns a `502 Bad Gateway` response and retries the request up to the number of retries configured with the [`retries`](#schema-service-retries) parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`connect_timeout`](#schema-service-connect-timeout) parameter defines the time allowed to establish a TCP connection to the upstream server. If the connection can't be opened, it fails at the socket-setup layer. {{site.base_gateway}} returns a `502 Bad Gateway` response and retries the request up to the number of retries that are configured with the [`retries`](#schema-service-retries) parameter.
```

Added a little contextual help because I wobbled cognitively there/

### Read timeout

> The [`read_timeout`](#schema-service-read-timeout) parameter defines the time allowed for the upstream to send a full response after the connection is established. If the upstream stalls, the timeout is triggered once the idle time exceeds the configured value and {{site.base_gateway}} returns a `504 Gateway Time-out` response. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`read_timeout`](#schema-service-read-timeout) parameter defines the time that the {{site.base_gateway}} waits for the upstream to send a full response after establishing a connection. If the upstream stalls, {{site.base_gateway}} triggers the timeout once the idle time exceeds the configured value and returns a `504 Gateway Time-out` response. 
```

Personal preference - push for active voice / same tense (present).

{% capture retry %}
The retry behavior depends on the method used:

> * For idempotent methods (`GET`, `HEAD`, `PUT`, `DELETE`, `OPTIONS`, and `TRACE`), {{site.base_gateway}} retries the request up to the number of retries configured with the [`retries`](#schema-service-retries) parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Idempotent methods (`GET`, `HEAD`, `PUT`, `DELETE`, `OPTIONS`, and `TRACE`): {{site.base_gateway}} retries the request up to the number of retries configured with the [`retries`](#schema-service-retries) parameter.
```

Personal preference - pace and scanability

> * For non-idempotent methods (`POST`, `PATCH`, `LOCK`, `UNLOCK`, `PROPPATCH`, `MKCOL`, `MOVE`, and `COPY`), by default {{site.base_gateway}} will not retry unless [`proxy_next_upstream non_idempotent`](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_proxy_module.html#proxy_next_upstream) is set in the NGINX configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Non-idempotent methods (`POST`, `PATCH`, `LOCK`, `UNLOCK`, `PROPPATCH`, `MKCOL`, `MOVE`, and `COPY`): {{site.base_gateway}} will not retry unless [`proxy_next_upstream non_idempotent`](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_proxy_module.html#proxy_next_upstream) is set in the NGINX configuration by default.
```
^^ Same as above + parallelism

{% endcapture %}

{{ retry }}

### Write timeout

> The [`write_timeout`](#schema-service-write-timeout) parameter defines the idle time between successive write operations when sending the request body to the upstream. It measures gaps in data transmission, not the total upload duration. The timer resets with each successful write. The timeout is triggered when the upstream accepts the connection but delays receiving the body at the TCP level. {{site.base_gateway}} returns a `504 Gateway Time-out` response. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`write_timeout`](#schema-service-write-timeout) parameter defines the idle time between successive write operations when sending a request body to the upstream. It measures gaps in data transmission, not the total upload duration. The timer resets after each successful write. The timeout triggers if the upstream accepts the connection but delays receiving the body at the TCP level. {{site.base_gateway}} returns a `504 Gateway Time-out` response. 
```

[the] > [a]: First time object is introduced = A.
Personal preference - keeping verbs familiar (triggers) / contextual help (resets after each)
